DOCS-9458-email-list-editorial-kt (#1143)
mulesoft/docs-connectors: email/1.3/modules/ROOT/edits/email-list.adoc

= List Emails with Email Connector Examples - Mule 4
:page-aliases: connectors::email/email-list.adoc

> 

Reviewer: Ditto applicable edits to the same text in email-send.adoc.

> Anypoint for Email (Email Connector) provides the *List - IMAP* and *List - POP3* operations to list emails from any part of the flow. The following examples illustrate how to configure these operations for the connector:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Anypoint Connector for Email (Email Connector) provides the List - IMAP and List - POP3 operations, which list emails from any part of the flow. The following examples illustrate how to configure these operations for the connector:
```
Operation names are init. capped but not boldfaced unless you are referring to them as UI labels. GLOBAL

* <<send-attachments,List Emails from an IMAPS Server>> +

> Configure the *List - IMAP* operation to list all the emails in the configured IMAP mailbox folder from an IMAPS server that has a TLS connection. Additionally, set a *For Each* scope component and two *Set Variable* components to iterate over the emails and save the email body and attachment content in variables.

Reviewer: ditto here: these should not be in bold unless referred to in the context of viewing and manipulating the interface controls that have those labels
```suggestion
Configure the List - IMAP operation to list all the emails in the configured IMAP mailbox folder from an IMAPS server that has a TLS connection. Additionally, set a For Each scope component and two Set Variable components to iterate over the emails and save the email body and attachment content in variables.
```
For example, you would bold these in a context like the following:
. In *List - IMAP*, configure the operation to list....
or
. In the *List - IMAP* section, configure an operation to list....

Does this make sense? Should I provide more info about naming things in general contexts vs. quoting the UI?

* <<send-attachments,List Emails from a POP3 Server>> +

> Configure the *List - POP3* operation to list all the emails in the configured POP3 mailbox folder that matched the criteria specified in the *Match with* parameter.

Reviewer: This one is even trickier, because without making clear that these are UI LABELS, this should be...
```suggestion
Configure the List - POP3 operation to list all the emails in the configured POP3 mailbox folder that matched the criteria specified in the `Match with` parameter.
```
Maybe it would help to refer to the "font choices" entry in the style ref? Or if you do not think that that entry is clear, let me know?

> These example uses variables for some field values. You can either: +

Reviewer: ```suggestion
These examples use variables for some field values. You can either: +
```

> * Replace the variables with their values in the code.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Replace the variable values directly in the code.
```

> * Provide the values for each variable in a properties file and then refer to that file from the connector configuration. +

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Provide the variable values in a properties file and then refer to that file in the connector configuration. +
```

If you don’t know how to use a properties file, see xref:mule-runtime::mule-app-properties-to-configure.adoc[Configuring Property Placeholders].

== List Emails from an IMAPS Server

> The following example illustrates how to list all the emails in the configured IMAP mailbox folder from an IMAPS server that has a TLS connection. A *Scheduler* component initiates the flow, and then the *List - IMAP* operation lists the emails. Subsequently, a *For Each* scope component and two *Set Variable* components iterate over the emails, and save the body and attachments of the email content payload in variables:

Reviewer: ditto re. bold > plain init cap for names of things, not UI labels, which are quoted correctly in the steps (when the user is actually in the UI).

. In the *General* tab, enter the following values:
+
* *Host* +
`imap.gmail.com`
* *Port* +
`993`
* *User* +
`user1@domain.com`
* *Password* +
`passwordconnection`
+

[start=7]
. In the *TLS Configuration* section, select *Edit inline*.
. In the *Trust Store Configuration* section, enter the following values:
+
* *Path* +
`aTruststore.jks`
* *Password* +
`passwordtrust`
+
[start=9]
. In the *Key Store Configuration* section, enter the following values:
+
* *Path* +
`aKeystore`
* *Password*
`passwordkey`
+
[start=10]
. In the *Advanced* section, set *Enabled Protocols* to `TLSv1.2,SSLv3`.
. Click *OK* to close the configuration window.

The following screenshot shows the IMAP global configuration:

.IMAPS Connection Configuration
image::email-list-imap-config.png[IMAPS Connection Configuration]

[start=12]
. On the *List - IMAP* configuration screen, set the *Mailbox folder* field to `INBOX`.

The following screenshot shows the *List - IMAP* configuration screen:

.List - IMAP Configuration
image::email-list-listimap-config.png[List - IMAP Configuration]

[start=13]
. Drag the *For each* scope component to the right of the *List - IMAP* operation.

> . Drag a *Set Variable* component inside the *For each* scope component.

Reviewer: "inside" = "onto"?

. Set the *Name* field to `email-content` and the *Value* field to `payload.body`. +

> This component saves the body content of the email into a new variable.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This component saves the body content of the email in a new variable.
```

. Drag another *Set Variable* component to the right of the first *Set Variable* component.
. Set the *Name* field to `json-attachment` and the *Value* field to `#[payload.attachments.'attachment-name']`. +

> This component saves the email `.json` attachment into a new variable.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This component saves the email `.json` attachment to a new variable.
```

http://www.mulesoft.org/schema/mule/tls http://www.mulesoft.org/schema/mule/tls/current/mule-tls.xsd">
	<email:imap-config name="Email_IMAP" doc:name="Email IMAP" doc:id="e1aa73b1-4719-4463-b0d9-4b92fb6b2622" >
		<email:imaps-connection host="imap.gmail.com" user="user1@domain.com" password="passwordconnection" >
			<tls:context enabledProtocols="TLSv1.2,SSLv3">
				<tls:trust-store path="aTruststore.jks" password="passwordtrust" />
				<tls:key-store path="aKeystore" password="passwordkey" />
			</tls:context>
		</email:imaps-connection>
	</email:imap-config>
	<flow name="ListIMAP" >
		<scheduler doc:name="Scheduler" >
			<scheduling-strategy >
				<fixed-frequency />
			</scheduling-strategy>
		</scheduler>
		<email:list-imap doc:name="List - IMAP" config-ref="Email_IMAP"/>
		<foreach doc:name="For Each" >
			<set-variable value="#[payload.body]" doc:name="Set Variable" variableName="email-content"/>
			<set-variable value="#[payload.attachments.'attachment-name']" doc:name="Set Variable" variableName="json-attachment"/>
		</foreach>
	</flow>
</mule>
----

== List Emails from a POP3 Server

> When listing emails, you can filter them using the *Match with* parameter, which defines the criteria to process the emails. All matcher attributes are optional. They are also related to each other under an `AND` operator, meaning that all the criteria must be true. These attributes vary depending on the type of configuration that you are using. For example, the IMAP protocol provides more metadata about the retrieved email such as the `recent`, `seen`, `deleted`, and `answered` attribute flags.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
When listing emails, you can filter them using the `Match with` parameter, which defines the criteria to process the emails. All matcher attributes are optional. They are also related to each other under an `AND` operator, meaning that all the criteria must be true. These attributes vary depending on the type of configuration that you are using. For example, the IMAP protocol provides more metadata about the retrieved email, such as the `recent`, `seen`, `deleted`, and `answered` attribute flags.
```

> The following example illustrates how to list all the emails in the configured POP3 mailbox folder that match the specified criteria set in the *Match with* parameter for the configuration. A *Scheduler* component initiates the flow, and then the *List - POP3* operation lists only the emails whose subject regex match `BETA`:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The following example illustrates how to list all the emails in the configured POP3 mailbox folder that match the specified criteria set in the `Match with` parameter for the configuration. A Scheduler component initiates the flow, and then the List - POP3 operation lists only the emails whose subject regex match `BETA`:
```
